♪ [music] ♪
In this video, we're going to do a couple
things now that we actually have our user
login. First of all, we're going to hook
up this LOGOUT button.
Second, we're going to make the login form
work again, and third,
we are going to create an avatar, and
fourth, when you go to the ADD page,
we need to make sure that the user is
actually logged in. So, couple things
going on here, but let's get started.
First of all, LOGOUT button. We'll open up
our authController right here,
and we'll make a logout method. So,
exports.logout equals request,
response, and to logout you simply just
say, req.logout. That's it,
then you've logged a person out. But we
also want to tell them that it worked,
so we'll say req.flash success. "You are
now logged out!". Maybe put an emoji in
there.
Good. And then, finally, we want to
redirect them, so res.redirect.
So, we actually need to handle this. I'll
just redirect them to the homepage.
Good. Now, we'll open up our index.js, and
if you click on this LOGOUT button,
it's going to /logout and it's 404ing, so
we simply just need to make a route
handler for that, router.get /logout .
We're going to say authController.logout.
That should do it. So now, if I click on
LOGOUT, it says, "You are now logged out!"
and it has redirected me to the homepage,
you can see that because if we take a look
at our layout.js...you see in our layout,
we'll say locals.user,
or user.
So, if there's a user, then show them this
logged in nav. Otherwise,
we show them the logged out nav. So,
that's what we have going on here.
So there is no user being passed to all of
the templates, so it's showing us the
logged out nav.
Good. So, we have that, now we'll click on
LOG IN, and we have this happening here,
but we haven't yet actually set up the
post, right? If I try sign in with
wesbos@gmail.com, and I put in wes and
click LOG IN, it's going to 404.
Why? Because we do have a get login, but
we do not have a post login.
So, we can do that now, and just say
router.post /login, and then we simply
just need to take our authController and
give it this login again,
because it will handle all of the local
authentication for us.
Super easy, I really like that. So we'll
take our authController,
and we'll say login. Now, go back here,
click on LOG IN, try to login,
and then, it will successfully log us in.
That's all that there is to that,
you can logout. Let's try it one more time
for good old times' sake.
Beautiful. Nicely logged in. So, that's
the first two pieces, logout and login.
All of that stuff is baked into
passport.js, it's not anything we have to
worry worry about sessions, or deleting
cookies, or anything like that.
Next up, we have this avatar right here,
and if you open up the layout and look at
it, we'll just search for avatar. What
we're saying is the user.gravatar.
Hmm, well, first of all, if you've never
used a gravatar, it's a
globally-recognized avatar and
essentially, what it does, is every single
time that you have a user's email address,
you can actually drum up
their avatar from it.
So, we're not going to actually be
handling the users uploading an image to
here, because nobody will actually do
that. We're just going to use the built-in
gravatar service, which will show us their
globally-recognized avatar.
So, if you've ever signed up for a
WordPress before, then you're going to
have a gravatar that sort of follows you
around throughout the entire internet,
so. This gravatar property, we haven't
really done it, so let's open up our
user.js model, and we don't actually need
to add a new property here called
gravatar, because it can be used with
what's called a virtual field.
And a virtual field in Mongoose is
essentially something that can be
generated. So rather than storing all the
data about a user, sometimes your fields
can be generated. For example, if you're
trying to store somebody's weight and
you're storing it in kilograms, you
wouldn't also store it in pounds,
because that can just be
generated on the fly.
If you have it in one, you can convert it
to the other, no problem.
Same with if you are storing miles per
hour, you can easily convert that to
kilometers an hour for people that use a
sane metric system. So,
all we want to do is make a virtual field
here, and I'll say userSchema.virtual,
and we're going to make
the virtual gravatar.
From that, we can have both get and a set
function. In our case,
we only need a get function here, and
whatever you return from this function
here is going to be returned from the
gravatar. So you can do something
hilarious, like search for "the rock
picture." Go ahead. Images,
there we go. Visit the page. Oh, no,
that's not what we want. View the image,
there we go. So what we could do from here
is we could simply return the actual Rock,
right?
Now, I refresh the page. Oh, we don't
actually see it. Let's check our layout.
It's because I've put this d=retro on it.
We need that in a bit,
but take that off for now. In our refresh,
you'll see The Rock showing up.
Why? Because I didn't add a new field. The
Rock is not stored in the database.
The Rock is just virtual and is being
pulled up via a virtual field called
gravatar, and whenever you want to use
user.gravatar, it's going to generate that
field sort of on the fly for us.
So, that's what we want here. We're not
going to use The Rock,
as awesome as he is. We are going to be
using a gravatar. Now,
how do you get a gravatar? Well, a
gravatar uses a hashing algorithm called
MD5, and essentially, it just takes the
user's email address and hashes it so that
you're not going to leak the user's email
address in the image source,
but you will show a hash of that. So, we
go up to the top here,
and we've already imported our MD5
library, and from it, we'll make a hash,
and we'll take md5, and you need the
user's email address.
So we say this.email, right? Because this
is going to be equal to the user,
and then, we can access any of the
properties like email. That's why we've
used a proper function here and not an
arrow function, and then,
from that we are going to return backticks
and https://gravatar.com/avatar/ then this
is where you do the hash, and then
question mark, size equals 200.
So, give that a refresh, and now, when we
see that , what's going to happen is a
picture of me is going to pop up, or a
picture of you is going to pop up,
or if you don't have a gravatar associated
with that email address,
you'll just see like a G or some sort of
default gravatar that gets passed in,
right? See this, 519c9ae? That's the MD5
hash of wesbos@gmail.com.
So if I ever go to this URL here, I can
see a picture of myself,
or if you would like a huge picture of
myself, you can make it 2000.
Whoa! Too big! Too big! Too big! But you
get the point, right?
This is a URL which can be then used in an
image tag, that is auto-generated with
something that is called a virtual field.
Hey, Rock! Similarities?
I think so. So, we've got that. What else
do we need? We've got our avatar,
we got our login, we got our logout. Last
thing that we need to do is...let's
logout.
Now let's go to the ADD page, and you
shouldn't be able to add a store unless
you are logged in. So, what we'll do here
is we'll go back to our authController,
and we're going to make a little piece of
middleware that checks if the user is
logged in. So say exports.isLoggedIn
equals request, and response,
and next, and we can check. First check if
the user is
authenticated.if(req.isAuthenticated()).
That's a method there. That's not just a
property, and what that will do is it'll
check with Passport if that user is there,
and that's the beauty of using Passport
middleware, is that it puts all of these
methods on for us that we can just go
ahead and use. And if that is true, then
next(), we'll just say,
"carry on! They are logged in!" Otherwise,
we can return here.
We're going to req.flash error.
It'll say, "Oops you must be logged in,"
then we'll redirect them to the login
page.res.redirect. Good. So, we just made
a little piece of middleware...
Oops! Arrow function. We made a little
piece of middleware here that says if they
are authenticated, then continue on the
middleware path, otherwise,
stop it right there, tell them that they
must be logged in, and show them the
actual login page. So we can take this
isLoggedIn middleware, go back to our
routes, find this route, which
is /add right here.
Oh, no that's our post. This is our add,
and before we show them the ADD STORE
form, we're simply going to take our
authController and give them the
isLoggedIn, and then move them on to
addStore. So, you will never make it past
this middleware unless we're logged in. If
we are, then we'll make it to the second
piece of middleware in the stack. So now,
if I go back to ADD,
it tells me, "Oops you must be logged in
to do that!" and brings me to the login
page, so I cannot go to the ADD page.
But if I do login, then I go to ADD, it
shows me the ADD page because I'm logged
in, right? Couple little goodies in there.
Let's move on to doing the user accounts
screen.
♪ [music] ♪